Ghost, Jon wanted to shout, where are you? ALINEA
He was about to follow Qhorin and the others when he glimpsed a flash of white between two boulders. A patch of old snow, he thought, until he saw it stir. He was off his horse at once. As he went to his knees, ALINEA
Ghost lifted his head. His neck glistened wetly, but he made no sound when Jon peeled off a glove and touched him. The talons had torn a bloody path through fur and flesh, but the bird had not been able to snap his neck. ALINEA
Qhorin Halfhand was standing over him. "How bad?" ALINEA
As if in answer, Ghost struggled to his feet. ALINEA
"The wolf is strong," the ranger said. "Ebben, water. Stonesnake, your skin of wine. Hold him still, Jon." ALINEA
Together they washed the caked blood from the direwolf's fur. Ghost struggled and bared his teeth when Qhorin poured the wine into the ragged red gashes the eagle had left him, but Jon wrapped his arms around him and murmured soothing words, and soon enough the wolf quieted. By the time they'd ripped a strip from Jon's cloak to wrap the wounds, full dark had settled. Only a dusting of stars set the black of sky apart from the black of stone. "Do we press on?" Stonesnake wanted to know. ALINEA
Qhorin went to his garron. "Back, not on." ALINEA
"Back?" Jon was taken by surprise. ALINEA
"Eagles have sharper eyes than men. We are seen. So now we run." The Halfhand wound a long black scarf around his face and swung up into the saddle. ALINEA
The other rangers exchanged a look, but no man thought to argue. One by one they mounted and turned their mounts toward home. "Ghost, come," he called, and the direwolf followed, a pale shadow moving through the night. ALINEA
All night they rode, feeling their way up the twisting pass and through the stretches of broken ground. The wind grew stronger. Sometimes it was so dark that they dismounted and went ahead on foot, each man leading his garron. Once Ebben suggested that some torches might serve them well, but Qhorin said, "No fire," and that was the end of that. They reached the stone bridge at the summit and began to descend again. Off in the darkness a shadowcat screamed in fury, its voice bouncing off the rocks so it seemed as though a dozen other 'cats were giving answer. Once Jon thought he saw a pair of glowing eyes on a ledge overhead, as big as harvest moons. ALINEA
In the black hour before dawn, they stopped to let the horses drink and fed them each a handful of oats and a twist or two of hay. "We are not far from the place the wildlings died," said Qhorin. "From there, one man could hold a hundred. The right man." He looked at Squire Dalbridge. ALINEA
The squire bowed his head. "Leave me as many arrows as you can spare, brothers." He stroked his longbow. "And see my garron has an apple when you're home. He's earned it, poor beastie." ALINEA
He's staying to die, Jon realized. ALINEA
Qhorin clasped the squire's forearm with a gloved hand. "If the eagle flies down for a look at you . . . " ALINEA
" . . . he'll sprout some new feathers." ALINEA
The last Jon saw of Squire Dalbridge was his back as he clambered up the narrow path to the heights. ALINEA
When dawn broke, Jon looked up into a cloudless sky and saw a speck moving through the blue. Ebben saw it too, and cursed, but Qhorin told him to be quiet. "Listen." ALINEA
Jon held his breath, and heard it. Far away and behind them, the call of a hunting horn echoed against the mountains. ALINEA
"And now they come," said Qhorin. ALINEA
Chapter Fifty-four ALINEA
TYRION ALINEA
Pod dressed him for his ordeal in a plush velvet tunic of Lannister crimson and brought him his chain of office. Tyrion left it on the bedside table. His sister misliked being reminded that he was the King's Hand, and he did not wish to inflame the relations between them any further. ALINEA
Varys caught up with him as he was crossing the yard. "My lord," he said, a little out of breath. "You had best read this at once." He held out a parchment in a soft white hand. "A report from the north." ALINEA
"Good news or bad?" Tyrion asked. ALINEA
"That is not for me to judge." ALINEA
Tyrion unrolled the parchment. He had to squint to read the words in the torchlit yard. "Gods be good," he said softly. "Both of them?" ALINEA
"I fear so, my lord. It is so sad. So grievous sad. And them so young and innocent." ALINEA
Tyrion remembered how the wolves had howled when the Stark boy had fallen. Are they howling now, I wonder? "Have you told anyone else?" he asked. ALINEA
"Not as yet, though of course I must." ALINEA
He rolled up the letter. "I'll tell my sister." He wanted to see how she took the news. He wanted that very much. ALINEA
The queen looked especially lovely that night. She wore a low-cut gown of deep green velvet that brought out the color of her eyes. Her golden hair tumbled across her bare shoulders, and around her waist was a woven belt studded with emeralds. Tyrion waited until he had been seated and served a cup of wine before thrusting the letter at her. He said not a word. Cersei blinked at him innocently and took the parchment from his hand. ALINEA
"I trust you're pleased," he said as she read. "You wanted the Stark boy dead, I believe." ALINEA
Cersei made a sour face. "It was Jaime who threw him from that window, not me. For love, he said, as if that would please me. It was a stupid thing to do, and dangerous besides, but when did our sweet brother ever stop to think?" ALINEA
"The boy saw you," Tyrion pointed out. ALINEA
"He was a child. I could have frightened him into silence." She looked at the letter thoughtfully. "Why must I suffer accusations every time some Stark stubs his toe? This was Greyjoy's work, I had nothing to do with it." ALINEA
"Let us hope Lady Catelyn believes that." ALINEA
Her eyes widened. "She wouldn't - " ALINEA
" - kill Jaime? Why not? What would you do if Joffrey and Tommen were murdered?" ALINEA
"I still hold Sansa!" the queen declared. ALINEA
"We still hold Sansa," he corrected her, "and we had best take good care of her. Now where is this supper you've promised me, sweet sister?" ALINEA
Cersei set a tasty table, that could not be denied. They started with a creamy chestnut soup, crusty hot bread, and greens dressed with apples and pine nuts. Then came lamprey pie, honeyed ham, buttered carrots, white beans and bacon, and roast swan stuffed with mushrooms and oysters. Tyrion was exceedingly courteous; he offered his sister the choice portions of every dish, and made certain he ate only what she did. Not that he truly thought she'd poison him, but it never hurt to be careful. ALINEA
The news about the Starks had soured her, he could see. "We've had no word from Bitterbridge?" she asked anxiously as she speared a bit of apple on the point of her dagger and ate it with small, delicate bites. ALINEA
"None." ALINEA
"I've never trusted Littlefinger. For enough coin, he'd go over to Stannis in a heartbeat." ALINEA
"Stannis Baratheon is too bloody righteous to buy men. Nor would he make a comfortable lord for the likes of Petyr. This war has made for some queer bedfellows, I agree, but those two? No." ALINEA
As he carved some slices off the ham, she said, "We have Lady Tanda to thank for the pig." ALINEA
"A token of her love?" ALINEA
"A bribe. She begs leave to return to her castle. Your leave as well as mine. I suspect she fears you'll arrest her on the road, as you did Lord Gyles." ALINEA
"Does she plan to make off with the heir to the throne?" Tyrion served his sister a cut of ham and took one for himself. "I'd sooner she remain. If she wants to feel safe, tell her to bring down her garrison from Stokeworth. As many men as she has." ALINEA
"If we need men so badly, why did you send away your savages?" A certain testiness crept into Cersei's voice. ALINEA
"It was the best use I could have made of them," he told her truthfully. "They're fierce warriors, but not soldiers. In formal battle, discipline is more important than courage. They've already done us more good in the kingswood than they would ever have done us on the city walls." ALINEA
As the swan was being served, the queen questioned him about the conspiracy of the Antler Men. She seemed more annoyed than afraid. "Why are we plagued with so many treasons? What injury has House Lannister ever done these wretches?" ALINEA
"None," said Tyrion, "but they think to be on the winning side . . . which makes them fools as well as traitors." ALINEA
"Are you certain you've found them all?" ALINEA
"Varys says so." The swan was too rich for his taste. ALINEA
A line appeared on Cersei's pale white brow, between those lovely eyes. "You put too much trust in that eunuch." ALINEA
"He serves me well." ALINEA
"Or so he'd have you believe. You think you're the only one he whispers secrets to? He gives each of us just enough to convince us that we'd be helpless without him. He played the same game with me, when I first wed Robert. For years, I was convinced I had no truer friend at court, but now . . . " She studied his face for a moment. "He says you mean to take the Hound from Joffrey." ALINEA
Damn Varys. "I need Clegane for more important duties." ALINEA
"Nothing is more important than the life of the king." ALINEA
"The life of the king is not at risk. Joff will have brave Ser Osmund guarding him, and Meryn Trant as well." They're good for nothing better. "I need Balon Swann and the Hound to lead sorties, to make certain Stannis gets no toehold on our side of the Blackwater." ALINEA
"Jaime would lead the sorties himself." ALINEA
"From Riverrun? That's quite a sortie." ALINEA
"Joff's only a boy." ALINEA
"A boy who wants to be part of this battle, and for once he's showing some sense. I don't intend to put him in the thick of the fighting, but he needs to be seen. Men fight more fiercely for a king who shares their peril than one who hides behind his mother's skirts." ALINEA
"He's thirteen, Tyrion." ALINEA
"Remember Jaime at thirteen? If you want the boy to be his father's son, let him play the part. Joff wears the finest armor gold can buy, and he'll have a dozen gold cloaks around him at all times. If the city looks to be in the least danger of falling, I'll have him escorted back to the Red Keep at once." ALINEA
He had thought that might reassure her, but he saw no sign of pleasure in those green eyes. "Will the city fall?" ALINEA
"No." But if it does, pray that we can hold the Red Keep long enough for our lord father to march to our relief. ALINEA
"You've lied to me before, Tyrion." ALINEA
"Always with good reason, sweet sister. I want amity between us as much as you do. I've decided to release Lord Gyles." He had kept Gyles safe for just this gesture. "You can have Ser Boros Blount back as well." ALINEA
The queen's mouth tightened. "Ser Boros can rot at Rosby," she said, "but Tommen - " ALINEA
" - stays where he is. He's safer under Lord Jacelyn's protection than he would ever have been with Lord Gyles." ALINEA
Serving men cleared away the swan, hardly touched. Cersei beckoned for the sweet. "I hope you like blackberry tarts." ALINEA
"I love all sorts of tarts." ALINEA
"Oh, I've known that a long while. Do you know why Varys is so dangerous?" ALINEA
"Are we playing at riddles now? No." ALINEA
"He doesn't have a cock." ALINEA
"Neither do you." And don't you just hate that, Cersei? ALINEA
"Perhaps I'm dangerous too. You, on the other hand, are as big a fool as every other man. That worm between your legs does half your thinking." ALINEA
