From up here, she could see a small wooded island off to the northeast. Thirty yards from shore, three black swans were gliding over the water, so serene . . . no one had told them that war had come, and they cared nothing for burning towns and butchered men. She stared at them with yearning. Part of her wanted to be a swan. The other part wanted to eat one. She had broken her fast on some acorn paste and a handful of bugs. Bugs weren't so bad when you got used to them. Worms were worse, but still not as bad as the pain in your belly after days without food. Finding bugs was easy, all you had to do was kick over a rock. Arya had eaten a bug once when she was little, just to make Sansa screech, so she hadn't been afraid to eat another. Weasel wasn't either, but Hot Pie retched up the beetle he tried to swallow, and Lommy and Gendry wouldn't even try. Yesterday Gendry had caught a frog and shared it with Lommy, and, a few days before, Hot Pie had found blackberries and stripped the bush bare, but mostly they had been living on water and acorns. Kurz had told them how to use rocks and make a kind of acorn paste. it tasted awful. ALINEA
She wished the poacher hadn't died. He'd known more about the woods than all the rest of them together, but he'd taken an arrow through the shoulder pulling in the ladder at the towerhouse. Tarber had packed it with mud and moss from the lake, and for a day or two Kurz swore the wound was nothing, even though the flesh of his throat was turning dark while angry red welts crept up his jaw and down his chest. Then one morning he couldn't find the strength to get up, and by the next he was dead. ALINEA
They buried him under a mound of stones, and Cutjack had claimed his sword and hunting horn, while Tarber helped himself to bow and boots and knife. They'd taken it all when they left. At first they thought the two had just gone hunting, that they'd soon return with game and feed them all. But they waited and waited, until finally Gendry made them move on. Maybe Tarber and Cutjack figured they would stand a better chance without a gaggle of orphan boys to herd along. They probably would too, but that didn't stop her hating them for leaving. ALINEA
Beneath her tree, Hot Pie barked like a dog. Kurz had told them to use animal sounds to signal to each other. An old poacher's trick, he'd said, but he'd died before he could teach them how to make the sounds right. Hot Pie's bird calls were awful. His dog was better, but not much. ALINEA
Arya hopped from the high branch to one beneath it, her hands out for balance. A water dancer never falls. Lightfoot, her toes curled tight around the branch, she walked a few feet, hopped down to a larger limb, then swung hand over hand through the tangle of leaves until she reached the trunk. The bark was rough beneath her fingers, against her toes. She descended quickly, jumping down the final six feet, rolling when she landed. ALINEA
Gendry gave her a hand to pull her up. "You were up there a long time. What could you see?" ALINEA
"A fishing village, just a little place, north along the shore. Twenty-six thatch roofs and one slate, I counted. I saw part of a wagon. Someone's there." ALINEA
At the sound of her voice, Weasel came creeping out from the bushes. Lommy had named her that. He said she looked like a weasel, which wasn't true, but they couldn't keep on calling her the crying girl after she finally stopped crying. Her mouth was filthy. Arya hoped she hadn't been eating mud again. ALINEA
"Did you see people?" asked Gendry. ALINEA
"Mostly just roofs," Arya admitted, "but some chimneys were smoking, and I heard a horse." The Weasel put her arms around her leg, clutching tight. Sometimes she did that now. ALINEA
"If there's people, there's food," Hot Pie said, too loudly. Gendry was always telling him to be more quiet, but it never did any good. "Might be they'd give us some." ALINEA
"Might be they'd kill us too," Gendry said. ALINEA
"Not if we yielded," Hot Pie said hopefully. ALINEA
"Now you sound like Lommy." ALINEA
Lommy Greenhands sat propped up between two thick roots at the foot of an oak. A spear had taken him through his left calf during the fight at the holdfast. By the end of the next day, he had to limp along one-legged with an arm around Gendry, and now he couldn't even do that. They'd hacked branches off trees to make a litter for him, but it was slow, hard work carrying him along, and he whimpered every time they jounced him. ALINEA
"We have to yield," he said. "That's what Yoren should have done. He should have opened the gates like they said." ALINEA
Arya was sick of Lommy going on about how Yoren should have yielded. It was all he talked about when they carried him, that and his leg and his empty belly. ALINEA
Hot Pie agreed. "They told Yoren to open the gates, they told him in the king's name. You have to do what they tell you in the king's name. It was that stinky old man's fault. If he'd of yielded, they would have left us be." ALINEA
Gendry frowned. "Knights and lordlings, they take each other captive and pay ransoms, but they don't care if the likes of you yield or not." He turned to Arya. "What else did you see?" ALINEA
"If it's a fishing village, they'd sell us fish, I bet," said Hot Pie. The lake teemed with fresh fish, but they had nothing to catch them with. Arya had tried to use her hands, the way she'd seen Koss do, but fish were quicker than pigeons and the water played tricks on her eyes. ALINEA
"I don't know about fish." Arya tugged at the Weasel's matted hair, thinking it might be best to hack it off. "There's crows down by the water. Something's dead there." ALINEA
"Fish, washed up on shore," Hot Pie said. "If the crows eat it, I bet we could." ALINEA
"We should catch some crows, we could eat them," said Lommy. "We could make a fire and roast them like chickens." ALINEA
Gendry looked fierce when he scowled. His beard had grown in thick and black as briar. "I said, no fires." ALINEA
"Lommy's hungry," Hot Pie whined, "and I am too." ALINEA
"We're all hungry," said Arya. ALINEA
"You're not," Lommy spat from the ground. "Worm breath." ALINEA
Arya could have kicked him in his wound. "I said I'd dig worms for you too, if you wanted." ALINEA
Lommy made a disgusted face. "If it wasn't for my leg, I'd hunt us some boars." ALINEA
"Some boars," she mocked. "You need a boarspear to hunt boars, and horses and dogs, and men to flush the boar from its lair." Her father had hunted boar in the wolfswood with Robb and Jon. Once he even took Bran, but never Arya, even though she was older. Septa Mordane said boar hunting was not for ladies, and Mother only promised that when she was older she might have her own hawk. She was older now, but if she had a hawk she'd eat it. ALINEA
"What do you know about hunting boars?" said Hot Pie. ALINEA
"More than you." ALINEA
Gendry was in no mood to hear it. "Quiet, both of you, I need to think what to do." He always looked pained when he tried to think, like it hurt him something fierce. ALINEA
"Yield," Lommy said. ALINEA
"I told you to shut up about the yielding. We don't even know who's in there. Maybe we can steal some food." ALINEA
"Lommy could steal, if it wasn't for his leg," said Hot Pie. "He was a thief in the city." ALINEA
"A bad thief," Arya said, "or he wouldn't have got caught." ALINEA
Gendry squinted up at the sun. "Evenfall will be the best time to sneak in. I'll go scout come dark." ALINEA
"No, I'll go," Arya said. "You're too noisy." ALINEA
Gendry got that look on his face. "We'll both go." ALINEA
"Arry should go," said Lommy. "He's sneakier than you are." ALINEA
"We'll both go, I said." ALINEA
"But what if you don't come back? Hot Pie can't carry me by himself, you know he can't . . . " ALINEA
"And there's wolves," Hot Pie said. "I heard them last night, when I had the watch. They sounded close." ALINEA
Arya had heard them too. She'd been asleep in the branches of an elm, but the howling had woken her. She'd sat awake for a good hour, listening to them, prickles creeping up her spine. ALINEA
"And you won't even let us have a fire to keep them off," Hot Pie said. "It's not right, leaving us for the wolves." ALINEA
"No one is leaving you," Gendry said in disgust. "Lommy has his spear if the wolves come, and you'll be with him. We're just going to go see, that's all; we're coming back." ALINEA
"Whoever it is, you should yield to them," Lommy whined. "I need some potion for my leg, it hurts bad." ALINEA
"If we see any leg potion, we'll bring it," Gendry said. "Arry, let's go, I want to get near before the sun is down. Hot Pie, you keep Weasel here, I don't want her following." ALINEA
"Last time she kicked me." ALINEA
"I'll kick you if you don't keep her here." Without waiting for an answer, Gendry donned his steel helm and walked off. ALINEA
Arya had to scamper to keep up. Gendry was five years older and a foot taller than she was, and long of leg as well. For a while he said nothing, just plowed on through the trees with an angry look on his face, making too much noise. But finally he stopped and said, "I think Lommy's going to die." ALINEA
She was not surprised. Kurz had died of his wound, and he'd been a lot stronger than Lommy. Whenever it was Arya's turn to help carry him, she could feel how warm his skin was, and smell the stink off his leg. "Maybe we could find a maester . . . " ALINEA
"You only find maesters in castles, and even if we found one, he wouldn't dirty his hands on the likes of Lommy." Gendry ducked under a low-hanging limb. ALINEA
"That's not true." Maester Luwin would have helped anyone who came to him, she was certain. ALINEA
"He's going to die, and the sooner he does it, the better for the rest of us. We should just leave him, like he says. If it was you or me hurt, you know he'd leave us." They scrambled down a steep cut and up the other side, using roots for handholds. "I'm sick of carrying him, and I'm sick of all his talk about yielding too. If he could stand up, I'd knock his teeth in. Lommy's no use to anyone. That crying girl's no use either." ALINEA
"You leave Weasel alone, she's just scared and hungry is all." Arya glanced back, but the girl was not following for once. Hot Pie must have grabbed her, like Gendry had told him. ALINEA
"She's no use," Gendry repeated stubbornly. "Her and Hot Pie and Lommy, they're slowing us down, and they're going to get us killed. You're the only one of the bunch who's good for anything. Even if you are a girl." ALINEA
Arya froze in her steps. "I'm not a girl!" ALINEA
"Yes you are. Do you think I'm as stupid as they are?" ALINEA
"No, you're stupider. The Night's Watch doesn't take girls, everyone knows that." ALINEA
"That's true. I don't know why Yoren brought you, but he must have had some reason. You're still a girl." ALINEA
"I am not!" ALINEA
"Then pull out your c**k and take a piss. Go on." ALINEA
"I don't need to take a piss. If I wanted to I could." ALINEA
"Liar. You can't take out your c**k because you don't have one. I never noticed before when there were thirty of us, but you always go off in the woods to make your water. You don't see Hot Pie doing that, nor me neither. If you're not a girl, you must be some eunuch." ALINEA
"You're the eunuch." ALINEA
"You know I'm not." Gendry smiled. "You want me to take out my c**k and prove it? I don't have anything to hide." ALINEA
"Yes you do," Arya blurted, desperate to escape the subject of the c**k she didn't have. "Those gold cloaks were after you at the inn, and you won't tell us why." ALINEA
