"Is Craster as savage as the rangers say?" Sam asked. The rabbit was a shade underdone, but tasted wonderful. "What's his castle like?" ALINEA
"A midden heap with a roof and a firepit." Jon told Sam what he had seen and heard in Craster's Keep. ALINEA
By the time the telling was done, it was dark outside and Sam was licking his fingers. "That was good, but now I'd like a leg of lamb. A whole leg, just for me, sauced with mint and honey and cloves. Did you see any lambs?" ALINEA
"There was a sheepfold, but no sheep." ALINEA
"How does he feed all his men?" ALINEA
"I didn't see any men. Just Craster and his women and a few small girls. I wonder he's able to hold the place. His defenses were nothing to speak of, only a muddy dike. You had better go up to the hall and draw that map. Can you find the way?" ALINEA
"If I don't fall in the mud." Sam struggled back into his boots, collected quill and parchment, and shouldered out into the night, the rain pattering down on his cloak and floppy hat. ALINEA
Ghost laid his head on his paws and went to sleep by the fire. Jon stretched out beside him, grateful for the warmth. He was cold and wet, but not so cold and wet as he'd been a short time before. Perhaps tonight the Old Bear will learn something that will lead us to Uncle Benjen. ALINEA
He woke to the sight of his own breath misting in the cold morning air. When he moved, his bones ached. Ghost was gone, the fire burnt out. Jon reached to pull aside the cloak he'd hung over the rock, and found it stiff and frozen. He crept beneath it and stood up in a forest turned to crystal. ALINEA
The pale pink light of dawn sparkled on branch and leaf and stone. Every blade of grass was carved from emerald, every drip of water turned to diamond. Flowers and mushrooms alike wore coats of glass. Even the mud puddles had a bright brown sheen. Through the shimmering greenery, the black tents of his brothers were encased in a fine glaze of ice. ALINEA
So there is magic beyond the Wall after all. He found himself thinking of his sisters, perhaps because he'd dreamed of them last night. Sansa would call this an enchantment, and tears would fill her eyes at the wonder of it, but Arya would run out laughing and shouting, wanting to touch it all. ALINEA
"Lord Snow?" he heard. Soft and meek. He turned. ALINEA
Crouched atop the rock that had sheltered him during the night was the rabbit keeper, wrapped in a black cloak so large it drowned her. Sam's cloak, Jon realized at once. Why is she wearing Sam's cloak? "The fat one told me I'd find you here, m'lord," she said. ALINEA
"We ate the rabbit, if that's what you came for." The admission made him feel absurdly guilty. ALINEA
"Old Lord Crow, him with the talking bird, he gave Craster a crossbow worth a hundred rabbits." Her arms closed over the swell of her belly. "Is it true, m'lord? Are you brother to a king?" ALINEA
"A half brother," he admitted. "I'm Ned Stark's bastard. My brother Robb is the King in the North. Why are you here?" ALINEA
"The fat one, that Sam, he said to see you. He give me his cloak, so no one would say I didn't belong." ALINEA
"Won't Craster be angry with you?" ALINEA
"My father drank overmuch of the Lord Crow's wine last night. He'll sleep most of the day." Her breath frosted the air in small nervous puffs. "They say the king gives justice and protects the weak." She started to climb off the rock, awkwardly, but the ice had made it slippery and her foot went out from under her. Jon caught her before she could fall, and helped her safely down. The woman knelt on the icy ground. "M'lord, I beg you - " ALINEA
"Don't beg me anything. Go back to your hall, you shouldn't be here. We were commanded not to speak to Craster's women." ALINEA
"You don't have to speak with me, m'lord. Just take me with you, when you go, that's all I ask." ALINEA
All she asks, he thought. As if that were nothing. ALINEA
"I'll . . . I'll be your wife, if you like. My father, he's got nineteen now, one less won't hurt him none." ALINEA
"Black brothers are sworn never to take wives, don't you know that? And we're guests in your father's hall besides." ALINEA
"Not you," she said. "I watched. You never ate at his board, nor slept by his fire. He never gave you guest-right, so you're not bound to him. It's for the baby I have to go." ALINEA
"I don't even know your name." ALINEA
"Gilly, he called me. For the gillyflower." ALINEA
"That's pretty." He remembered Sansa telling him once that he should say that whenever a lady told him her name. He could not help the girl, but perhaps the courtesy would please her. "Is it Craster who frightens you, Gilly?" ALINEA
"For the baby, not for me. If it's a girl, that's not so bad, she'll grow a few years and he'll marry her. But Nella says it's to be a boy, and she's had six and knows these things. He gives the boys to the gods. Come the white cold, he does, and of late it comes more often. That's why he started giving them sheep, even though he has a taste for mutton. Only now the sheep's gone too. Next it will be dogs, till . . . " She lowered her eyes and stroked her belly. ALINEA
"What gods?" Jon was remembering that they'd seen no boys in Craster's Keep, nor men either, save Craster himself. ALINEA
"The cold gods," she said. "The ones in the night. The white shadows." ALINEA
And suddenly Jon was back in the Lord Commander's Tower again. A severed hand was climbing his calf and when he pried it off with the point of his longsword, it lay writhing, fingers opening and closing. The dead man rose to his feet, blue eyes shining in that gashed and swollen face. Ropes of torn flesh hung from the great wound in his belly, yet there was no blood. ALINEA
"What color are their eyes?" he asked her. ALINEA
"Blue. As bright as blue stars, and as cold." ALINEA
She has seen them, he thought. Craster lied. ALINEA
"Will you take me? Just so far as the Wall - " ALINEA
"We do not ride for the Wall. We ride north, after Mance Rayder and these Others, these white shadows and their wights. We seek them, Gilly. Your babe would not be safe with us." ALINEA
Her fear was plain on her face. "You will come back, though. When your warring's done, you'll pass this way again." ALINEA
"We may." If any of us still live. "That's for the Old Bear to say, the one you call the Lord Crow. I'm only his squire. I do not choose the road I ride." ALINEA
"No." He could hear the defeat in her voice. "Sorry to be of trouble, m'lord. I only . . . they said the king keeps people safe, and I thought . . . " Despairing, she ran, Sam's cloak flapping behind her like great black wings. ALINEA
Jon watched her go, his joy in the morning's brittle beauty gone. Damn her, he thought resentfully, and damn Sam twice for sending her to me. What did he think I could do for her? We're here to fight wildlings, not save them. ALINEA
Other men were crawling from their shelters, yawning and stretching. The magic was already faded, icy brightness turning back to common dew in the light of the rising sun. Someone had gotten a fire started; he could smell woodsmoke drifting through the trees, and the smoky scent of bacon. Jon took down his cloak and snapped it against the rock, shattering the thin crust of ice that had formed in the night, then gathered up Longclaw and shrugged an arm through a shoulder strap. A few yards away he made water into a frozen bush, his piss steaming in the cold air and melting the ice wherever it fell. Afterward he laced up his black wool breeches and followed the smells. ALINEA
Grenn and Dywen were among the brothers who had gathered round the fire. Hake handed Jon a hollow heel of bread filled with burnt bacon and chunks of salt fish warmed in bacon grease. He wolfed it down while listening to Dywen boast of having three of Craster's women during the night. ALINEA
"You did not," Grenn said, scowling. "I would have seen." ALINEA
Dywen whapped him up alongside his ear with the back of his hand. "You? Seen? You're blind as Maester Aemon. You never even saw that bear." ALINEA
"What bear? Was there a bear?" ALINEA
"There's always a bear," declared Dolorous Edd in his usual tone of gloomy resignation. "One killed my brother when I was young. Afterward it wore his teeth around its neck on a leather thong. And they were good teeth too, better than mine. I've had nothing but trouble with my teeth." ALINEA
"Did Sam sleep in the hall last night?" Jon asked him. ALINEA
"I'd not call it sleeping. The ground was hard, the rushes ill-smelling, and my brothers snore frightfully. Speak of bears if you will, none ever growled so fierce as Brown Bernarr. I was warm, though. Some dogs crawled atop me during the night. My cloak was almost dry when one of them pissed in it. Or perhaps it was Brown Bernarr. Have you noticed that the rain stopped the instant I had a roof above me? It will start again now that I'm back out. Gods and dogs alike delight to piss on me." ALINEA
"I'd best go see to Lord Mormont," said Jon. ALINEA
The rain might have stopped, but the compound was still a morass of shallow lakes and slippery mud. Black brothers were folding their tents, feeding their horses, and chewing on strips of salt beef. Jarman Buckwell's scouts were tightening the girths on their saddles before setting out. "Jon," Buckwell greeted him from horseback. "Keep a good edge on that bastard sword of yours. We'll be needing it soon enough." ALINEA
Craster's hall was dim after daylight. Inside, the night's torches had burned low, and it was hard to know that the sun had risen. Lord Mormont's raven was the first to spy him enter. Three lazy flaps of its great black wings, and it perched atop Longclaw's hilt. "Corn?" It nipped at a strand of Jon's hair. ALINEA
"Ignore that wretched beggar bird, Jon, it's just had half my bacon." The Old Bear sat at Craster's board, breaking his fast with the other officers on fried bread, bacon, and sheepgut sausage. Craster's new axe was on the table, its gold inlay gleaming faintly in the torchlight. Its owner was sprawled unconscious in the sleeping loft above, but the women were all up, moving about and serving. "What sort of day do we have?" ALINEA
"Cold, but the rain has stopped." ALINEA
"Very good. See that my horse is saddled and ready. I mean for us to ride within the hour. Have you eaten? Craster serves plain fare, but filling." ALINEA
I will not eat Craster's food, he decided suddenly. "I broke my fast with the men, my lord." Jon shooed the raven off Longclaw. The bird hopped back to Mormont's shoulder, where it promptly shat. "You might have done that on Snow instead of saving it for me," the Old Bear grumbled. The raven quorked. ALINEA
He found Sam behind the hall, standing with Gilly at the broken rabbit hutch. She was helping him back into his cloak, but when she saw Jon she stole away. Sam gave him a look of wounded reproach. "I thought you would help her." ALINEA
"And how was I to do that?" Jon said sharply. "Take her with us, wrapped up in your cloak? We were commanded not to - " ALINEA
"I know," said Sam guiltily, "but she was afraid. I know what it is to be afraid. I told her . . . " He swallowed. ALINEA
"What? That we'd take her with us?" ALINEA
Sam's fat face blushed a deep red. "On the way home." He could not meet Jon's eyes. "She's going to have a baby." ALINEA
"Sam, have you taken leave of all your sense? We may not even return this way. And if we do, do you think the Old Bear is going to let you pack off one of Craster's wives?" ALINEA
"I thought . . . maybe by then I could think of a way . . . " ALINEA
