Yet Tommen put his spurs into his pony and galloped headlong across the yard, shouting with glee. One of the savages, a huge shambling man so hairy that his face was all but lost beneath his whiskers, scooped the boy out of his saddle, armor and all, and deposited him on the ground beside his uncle. Tommen's breathless laughter echoed off the walls as Tyrion clapped him on the backplate, and Sansa was startled to see that the two were of a height. Myrcella came running after her brother, and the dwarf picked her up by the waist and spun her in a circle, squealing. ALINEA
When he lowered her back to the ground, the little man kissed her lightly on the brow and came waddling across the yard toward Joffrey. Two of his men followed close behind him; a black-haired black-eyed sellsword who moved like a stalking cat, and a gaunt youth with an empty socket where one eye should have been. Tommen and Myrcella trailed after them. ALINEA
The dwarf went to one knee before the king. "Your Grace." ALINEA
"You," Joffrey said. ALINEA
"Me," the Imp agreed, "although a more courteous greeting might be in order, for an uncle and an elder." ALINEA
"They said you were dead," the Hound said. ALINEA
The little man gave the big one a look. One of his eyes was green, one was black, and both were cool. "I was speaking to the king, not to his cur." ALINEA
"I'm glad you're not dead," said Princess Myrcella. ALINEA
"We share that view, sweet child." Tyrion turned to Sansa. "My lady, I am sorry for your losses. Truly, the gods are cruel." ALINEA
Sansa could not think of a word to say to him. How could he be sorry for her losses? Was he mocking her? It wasn't the gods who'd been cruel, it was Joffrey. ALINEA
"I am sorry for your loss as well, Joffrey," the dwarf said. ALINEA
"What loss?" ALINEA
"Your royal father? A large fierce man with a black beard; you'll recall him if you try. He was king before you." ALINEA
"Oh, him. Yes, it was very sad, a boar killed him." ALINEA
"Is that what 'they' say, Your Grace?" ALINEA
Joffrey frowned. Sansa felt that she ought to say something. What was it that Septa Mordane used to tell her? A lady's armor is courtesy, that was it. She donned her armor and said, "I'm sorry my lady mother took you captive, my lord." ALINEA
"A great many people are sorry for that," Tyrion replied, "and before I am done, some may be a deal sorrier . . . yet I thank you for the sentiment. Joffrey, where might I find your mother?" ALINEA
"She's with my council," the king answered. "Your brother Jaime keeps losing battles." He gave Sansa an angry look, as if it were her fault. "He's been taken by the Starks and we've lost Riverrun and now her stupid brother is calling himself a king." ALINEA
The dwarf smiled crookedly. "All sorts of people are calling themselves kings these days." ALINEA
Joff did not know what to make of that, though he looked suspicious and out of sorts. "Yes. Well. I am pleased you're not dead, Uncle. Did you bring me a gift for my name day?" ALINEA
"I did. My wits." ALINEA
"I'd sooner have Robb Stark's head," Joff said with a sly glance at Sansa. "Tommen, Myrcella, come." ALINEA
Sandor Clegane lingered behind a moment. "I'd guard that tongue of yours, little man," he warned, before he strode off after his liege. ALINEA
Sansa was left with the dwarf and his monsters. She tried to think of what else she might say. "You hurt your arm," she managed at last. ALINEA
"One of your northmen hit me with a morningstar during the battle on the Green Fork. I escaped him by falling off my horse." His grin turned into something softer as he studied her face. "Is it grief for your lord father that makes you so sad?" ALINEA
"My father was a traitor," Sansa said at once. "And my brother and lady mother are traitors as well." That reflex she had learned quickly. "I am loyal to my beloved Joffrey." ALINEA
"No doubt. As loyal as a deer surrounded by wolves." ALINEA
"Lions," she whispered, without thinking. She glanced about nervously, but there was no one close enough to hear. ALINEA
Lannister reached out and took her hand, and gave it a squeeze. "I am only a little lion, child, and I vow, I shall not savage you." Bowing, he said "But now you must excuse me. I have urgent business with queen and council." ALINEA
Sansa watched him walk off, his body swaying heavily from side to side with every step, like something from a grotesquerie. He speaks more gently than Joffrey, she thought, but the queen spoke to me gently too. He's still a Lannister, her brother and Joff's uncle, and no friend. Once she had loved Prince Joffrey with all her heart, and admired and trusted his mother, the queen. They had repaid that love and trust with her father's head. Sansa would never make that mistake again. ALINEA
Chapter Three ALINEA
TYRION ALINEA
In the chilly white raiment of the Kingsguard, Ser Mandon Moore looked like a corpse in a shroud. "Her Grace left orders, the council in session is not to be disturbed." ALINEA
"I would be only a small disturbance, ser." Tyrion slid the parchment from his sleeve. "I bear a letter from my father, Lord Tywin Lannister, the Hand of the King. There is his seal." ALINEA
"Her Grace does not wish to be disturbed," Ser Mandon repeated slowly, as if Tyrion were a dullard who had not heard him the first time. ALINEA
Jaime had once told him that Moore was the most dangerous of the Kingsguard - excepting himself, always - because his face gave no hint as what he might do next. Tyrion would have welcomed a hint. Bronn and Timett could likely kill the knight if it came to swords, but it would scarcely bode well if he began by slaying one of Joffrey's protectors. Yet if he let the man turn him away, where was his authority? He made himself smile. "Ser Mandon, you have not met my companions. This is Timett son of Timett, a red hand of the Burned Men. And this is Bronn. Perchance you recall Ser Vardis Egen, who was captain of Lord Arryn's household guard?" ALINEA
"I know the man." Ser Mandon's eyes were pale grey, oddly flat and lifeless. ALINEA
"Knew," Bronn corrected with a thin smile. ALINEA
Ser Mandon did not deign to show that he had heard that. ALINEA
"Be that as it may," Tyrion said lightly, "I truly must see my sister and present my letter, ser. If you would be so kind as to open the door for us?" ALINEA
The white knight did not respond. Tyrion was almost at the point of trying to force his way past when Ser Mandon abruptly stood aside. "You may enter. They may not." ALINEA
A small victory, he thought, but sweet. He had passed his first test. Tyrion Lannister shouldered through the door, feeling almost tall. Five members of the king's small council broke off their discussion suddenly. "You," his sister Cersei said in a tone that was equal parts disbelief and distaste. ALINEA
"I can see where Joffrey learned his courtesies." Tyrion paused to admire the pair of Valyrian sphinxes that guarded the door, affecting an air of casual confidence. Cersei could smell weakness the way a dog smells fear. ALINEA
"What are you doing here?" His sister's lovely green eyes studied him without the least hint of affection. ALINEA
"Delivering a letter from our lord father." He sauntered to the table and placed the tightly rolled parchment between them. ALINEA
The eunuch Varys took the letter and turned it in his delicate powdered hands. "How kind of Lord Tywin. And his scaling wax is such a lovely shade of gold." Varys gave the seal a close inspection. "It gives every appearance of being genuine." ALINEA
"Of course it's genuine." Cersei snatched it out of his hands. She broke the wax and unrolled the parchment. ALINEA
Tyrion watched her read. His sister had taken the king's seat for herself - he gathered Joffrey did not often trouble to attend council meetings, no more than Robert had - so Tyrion climbed up into the Hand's chair. it seemed only appropriate. ALINEA
"This is absurd," the queen said at last. "My lord father has sent my brother to sit in his place in this council. He bids us accept Tyrion as the Hand of the King, until such time as he himself can join us." ALINEA
Grand Maester Pycelle stroked his flowing white beard and nodded ponderously. "It would seem that a welcome is in order." ALINEA
"Indeed." Jowly, balding Janos Slynt looked rather like a frog, a smug frog who had gotten rather above himself. "We have sore need of you, my lord. Rebellion everywhere, this grim omen in the sky, rioting in the city streets . . . " ALINEA
"And whose fault is that, Lord Janos?" Cersei lashed out. "Your gold cloaks are charged with keeping order. As to you, Tyrion, you could better serve us on the field of battle." ALINEA
He laughed. "No, I'm done with fields of battle, thank you. I sit a chair better than a horse, and I'd sooner hold a wine goblet than a battle-axe. All that about the thunder of the drums, sunlight flashing on armor, magnificent destriers snorting and prancing? Well, the drums gave me headaches, the sunlight flashing on my armor cooked me up like a harvest day goose, and those magnificent destriers shit everywhere. Not that I am complaining. Compared to the hospitality I enjoyed in the Vale of Arryn, drums, horseshit, and fly bites are my favorite things." ALINEA
Littlefinger laughed. "Well said, Lannister. A man after my own heart." ALINEA
Tyrion smiled at him, remembering a certain dagger with a dragonbone hilt and a Valyrian steel blade. We must have a talk about that, and soon. He wondered if Lord Petyr would find that subject amusing as well. "Please," he told them, "do let me be of service, in whatever small way I can." ALINEA
Cersei read the letter again. "How many men have you brought with you? " ALINEA
"A few hundred. My own men, chiefly. Father was loath to part with any of his. He is fighting a war, after all." ALINEA
"What use will your few hundred men be if Renly marches on the city, or Stannis sails from Dragonstone? I ask for an army and my father sends me a dwarf. The king names the Hand, with the consent of council. Joffrey named our lord father." ALINEA
"And our lord father named me." ALINEA
"He cannot do that. Not without Joff's consent." ALINEA
"Lord Tywin is at Harrenhal with his host, if you'd care to take it up with him," Tyrion said politely. "My lords, perchance you would permit me a private word with my sister?" ALINEA
Varys slithered to his feet, smiling in that unctuous way he had. "How you must have yearned for the sound of your sweet sister's voice. My lords, please, let us give them a few moments together. The woes of our troubled realm shall keep." ALINEA
Janos Slynt rose hesitantly and Grand Maester Pycelle ponderously, yet they rose. Littlefinger was the last. "Shall I tell the steward to prepare chambers in Maegor's Holdfast?" ALINEA
"My thanks, Lord Petyr, but I will be taking Lord Stark's former quarters in the Tower of the Hand." ALINEA
Littlefinger laughed. "You're a braver man than me, Lannister. You do know the fate of our last two Hands?" ALINEA
"Two? If you mean to frighten me, why not say four?" ALINEA
"Four?" Littlefinger raised an eyebrow. "Did the Hands before Lord Arryn meet some dire end in the Tower? I'm afraid I was too young to pay them much mind." ALINEA
"Aerys Targaryen's last Hand was killed during the Sack of King's Landing, though I doubt he'd had time to settle into the Tower. He was only Hand for a fortnight. The one before him was burned to death. And before them came two others who died landless and penniless in exile, and counted themselves lucky. I believe my lord father was the last Hand to depart King's Landing with his name, properties, and parts all intact." ALINEA
