"How many?" ALINEA
"Hundreds and thousands. More than you ever saw, crow." She smiled. Her teeth were crooked, but very white. ALINEA
She doesn't know how many. "Why come here?" ALINEA
Ygritte fell silent. ALINEA
"What's in the Frostfangs that your king could want? You can't stay here, there's no food." ALINEA
She turned her face away from him. ALINEA
"Do you mean to march on the Wall? When?" ALINEA
She stared at the flames as if she could not hear him. ALINEA
"Do you know anything of my uncle, Benjen Stark?" ALINEA
Ygritte ignored him. Stonesnake laughed. "if she spits out her tongue, don't say I didn't warn you." ALINEA
A low rumbling growl echoed off the rock. Shadowcat, Jon knew at once. As he rose he heard another, closer at hand. He pulled his sword and turned, listening. ALINEA
"They won't trouble us," Ygritte said. "It's the dead they've come for. Cats can smell blood six miles off. They'll stay near the bodies till they've eaten every last stringy shred o' meat, and cracked the bones for the marrow." ALINEA
Jon could hear the sounds of their feeding echoing off the rocks. It gave him an uneasy feeling. The warmth of the fire made him realize how bone-tired he was, but he dared not sleep. He had taken a captive, and it was on him to guard her. "Were they your kin?" he asked her quietly. "The two we killed?" ALINEA
"No more than you are." ALINEA
"Me?" He frowned. "What do you mean?" ALINEA
"You said you were the Bastard o' Winterfell." ALINEA
"I am." ALINEA
"Who was your mother?" ALINEA
"Some woman. Most of them are." Someone had said that to him once. He did not remember who. ALINEA
She smiled again, a flash of white teeth. "And she never sung you the song o' the winter rose?" ALINEA
"I never knew my mother. Or any such song." ALINEA
"Bael the Bard made it," said Ygritte. "He was King-beyond-the-Wall a long time back. All the free folk know his songs, but might be you don't sing them in the south." ALINEA
"Winterfell's not in the south," Jon objected. ALINEA
"Yes it is. Everything below the Wall's south to us." ALINEA
He had never thought of it that way. "I suppose it's all in where you're standing." ALINEA
"Aye," Ygritte agreed. "It always is." ALINEA
"Tell me," Jon urged her. It would be hours before Qhorin came up, and a story would help keep him awake. "I want to hear this tale of yours." ALINEA
"Might be you won't like it much." ALINEA
"I'll hear it all the same." ALINEA
"Brave black crow," she mocked. "Well, long before he was king over the free folk, Bael was a great raider." ALINEA
Stonesnake gave a snort. "A murderer, robber, and raper, is what you mean." ALINEA
"That's all in where you're standing too," Ygritte said. "The Stark in Winterfell wanted Bael's head, but never could take him, and the taste o' failure galled him. One day in his bitterness he called Bael a craven who preyed only on the weak. When word o' that got back, Bael vowed to teach the lord a lesson. So he scaled the Wall, skipped down the kingsroad, and walked into Winterfell one winter's night with harp in hand, naming himself Sygerrik of Skagos. Sygerrik means 'deceiver' in the Old Tongue, that the First Men spoke, and the giants still speak. ALINEA
"North or south, singers always find a ready welcome, so Bael ate at Lord Stark's own table, and played for the lord in his high seat until half the night was gone. The old songs he played, and new ones he'd made himself, and he played and sang so well that when he was done, the lord offered to let him name his own reward. 'All I ask is a flower,' Bael answered, 'the fairest flower that blooms in the gardens o' Winterfell.' ALINEA
"Now as it happened the winter roses had only then come into bloom, and no flower is so rare nor precious. So the Stark sent to his glass gardens and commanded that the most beautiful o' the winter roses be plucked for the singer's payment. And so it was done. But when morning come, the singer had vanished . . . and so had Lord Brandon's maiden daughter. Her bed they found empty, but for the pale blue rose that Bael had left on the pillow where her head had lain." ALINEA
Jon had never heard this tale before. "Which Brandon was this supposed to be? Brandon the Builder lived in the Age of Heroes, thousands of years before Bael. There was Brandon the Burner and his father Brandon the Shipwright, but - " ALINEA
"This was Brandon the Daughterless," Ygritte said sharply. "Would you hear the tale, or no?" ALINEA
He scowled. "Go on." ALINEA
"Lord Brandon had no other children. At his behest, the black crows flew forth from their castles in the hundreds, but nowhere could they find any sign o' Bael or this maid. For most a year they searched, till the lord lost heart and took to his bed, and it seemed as though the line o' Starks was at its end. But one night as he lay waiting to die, Lord Brandon heard a child's cry. He followed the sound and found his daughter back in her bedchamber, asleep with a babe at her breast." ALINEA
"Bael had brought her back?" ALINEA
"No. They had been in Winterfell all the time, hiding with the dead beneath the castle. The maid loved Bael so dearly she bore him a son, the song says . . . though if truth be told, all the maids love Bael in them songs he wrote. Be that as it may, what's certain is that Bael left the child in payment for the rose he'd plucked unasked, and that the boy grew to be the next Lord Stark. So there it is - you have Bael's blood in you, same as me." ALINEA
"It never happened," Jon said. ALINEA
She shrugged. "Might be it did, might be it didn't. It is a good song, though. My mother used to sing it to me. She was a woman too, Jon Snow. Like yours." She rubbed her throat where his dirk had cut her. "The song ends when they find the babe, but there is a darker end to the story. Thirty years later, when Bael was King-beyond-the-Wall and led the free folk south, it was young Lord Stark who met him at the Frozen Ford . . . and killed him, for Bael would not harm his own son when they met sword to sword." ALINEA
"So the son slew the father instead," said Jon. ALINEA
"Aye," she said, "but the gods hate kinslayers, even when they kill unknowing. When Lord Stark returned from the battle and his mother saw Bael's head upon his spear, she threw herself from a tower in her grief. Her son did not long outlive her. One o' his lords peeled the skin off him and wore him for a cloak." ALINEA
"Your Bael was a liar," he told her, certain now. ALINEA
"No," Ygritte said, "but a bard's truth is different than yours or mine. Anyway, you asked for the story, so I told it." She turned away from him, closed her eyes, and seemed to sleep. ALINEA
Dawn and Qhorin Halfhand arrived together. The black stones had turned to grey and the eastern sky had gone indigo when Stonesnake spied the rangers below, wending their way upward. Jon woke his captive and held her by the arm as they descended to meet them. Thankfully, there was another way off the mountain to the north and west, along paths much gentler than the one that had brought them up here. They were waiting in a narrow defile when their brothers appeared, leading their garrons. Ghost raced ahead at first scent of them. Jon squatted to let the direwolf close his jaws around his wrist, tugging his hand back and forth. It was a game they played. But when he glanced up, he saw Ygritte watching with eyes as wide and white as hen's eggs. ALINEA
Qhorin Halfhand made no comment when he saw the prisoner. "There were three," Stonesnake told him. No more than that. ALINEA
"We passed two," Ebben said, "or what the cats had left of them." He eyed the girl sourly, suspicion plain on his face. ALINEA
"She yielded," Jon felt compelled to say. ALINEA
Qhorin's face was impassive. "Do you know who I am?" ALINEA
"Qhorin Halfhand." The girl looked half a child beside him, but she faced him boldly. ALINEA
"Tell me true. If I fell into the hands of your people and yielded myself, what would it win me?" ALINEA
"A slower death than elsewise." ALINEA
The big ranger looked to Jon. "We have no food to feed her, nor can we spare a man to watch her." ALINEA
"The way before us is perilous enough, lad," said Squire Dalbridge. "One shout when we need silence, and every man of us is doomed." ALINEA
Ebben drew his dagger. "A steel kiss will keep her quiet." ALINEA
Jon's throat was raw. He looked at them all helplessly. "She yielded herself to me." ALINEA
"Then you must do what needs be done," Qhorin Halfhand said. "You are the blood of Winterfell and a man of the Night's Watch." He looked at the others. "Come, brothers. Leave him to it. It will go easier for him if we do not watch." And he led them up the steep twisting trail toward the pale pink glow of the sun where it broke through a mountain cleft, and before very long only Jon and Ghost remained with the wildling girl. ALINEA
He thought Ygritte might try to run, but she only stood there, waiting, looking at him. "You never killed a woman before, did you?" When he shook his head, she said, "We die the same as men. But you don't need to do it. Mance would take you, I know he would. There's secret ways. Them crows would never catch us." ALINEA
"I'm as much a crow as they are," Jon said. ALINEA
She nodded, resigned. "Will you burn me, after?" ALINEA
"I can't. The smoke might be seen." ALINEA
"That's so." She shrugged. "Well, there's worse places to end up than the belly of a shadowcat." ALINEA
He pulled Longclaw over a shoulder. "Aren't you afraid?" ALINEA
"Last night I was," she admitted. "But now the sun's up." She pushed her hair aside to bare her neck, and knelt before him. "Strike hard and true, crow, or I'll come back and haunt you." ALINEA
Longclaw was not so long or heavy a sword as his father's Ice, but it was Valyrian steel all the same. He touched the edge of the blade to mark where the blow must fall, and Ygritte shivered. "That's cold," she said. "Go on, be quick about it." ALINEA
He raised Longclaw over his head, both hands tight around the grip. One cut, with all my weight behind it. He could give her a quick clean death, at least. He was his father's son. Wasn't he? Wasn't he? ALINEA
"Do it," she urged him after a moment. "Bastard. Do it. I can't stay brave forever." When the blow did not fall she turned her head to look at him. ALINEA
Jon lowered his sword. "Go," he muttered. ALINEA
Ygritte stared. ALINEA
"Now," he said, "before my wits return. Go." ALINEA
She went. ALINEA
Chapter Fifty-two ALINEA
SANSA ALINEA
The southern sky was black with smoke. It rose swirling off a hundred distant fires, its sooty fingers smudging out the stars. Across the Blackwater Rush, a line of flame burned nightly from horizon to horizon, while on this side the Imp had fired the whole riverfront: docks and warehouses, homes and brothels, everything outside the city walls. ALINEA
Even in the Red Keep, the air tasted of ashes. When Sansa found Ser Dontos in the quiet of the godswood, he asked if she'd been crying. "It's only from the smoke," she lied. "It looks as though half the kingswood is burning." ALINEA
"Lord Stannis wants to smoke out the Imp's savages." Dontos swayed as he spoke, one hand on the trunk of a chestnut tree. A wine stain discolored the red-and-yellow motley of his tunic. "They kill his scouts and raid his baggage train. And the wildlings have been lighting fires too. The Imp told the queen that Stannis had better train his horses to eat ash, since he would find no blade of grass. I heard him say so. I hear all sorts of things as a fool that I never heard when I was a knight. They talk as though I am not there, and" - he leaned close, breathing his winey breath right in her face - "the Spider pays in gold for any little trifle. I think Moon Boy has been his for years." ALINEA
